# audio-video-tag-in-JS
JavaScript Audio
Table of content
The <audio> tag.
The <audio> tag is used to add sound content to your application, such as music or other different types of sounds. Here is the documentation from w3schools: w3Schools <audio> tag

It's a built-in feature in HTML and comes with a variety of different functionalies.

Basic usage
<audio controls src="sound.mp3"></audio>
or,

<audio controls>
  <source src="sound.mp3" type="audio/mpeg" />
  <source src="sound.ogg" type="audio/ogg" />
  <source src="sound.wav" type="audio/wav" />
</audio>
The two alternatives differs in that the latter one is more sutible if your application is intended to cover as many browsers and versions as possible, because the different <source> tags gives the browser the possibility to choose the media type that it supports. It it doesn't support, say audio/mpeg it will just try the next one and so on.

There are three supported audio formats that we can use with this <audio> tag and they are:

.mp3 - audio/mpeg
.wav - audio/wav
.ogg - audio/ogg
Let's break down the code snippets above
<audio> is the built-in element that embeds sound content in your HTML document.

controls is a feature that displays audio controls such as a play/pause button. This display comes with default styling and differs between browser. These controls are very restricted when it comes to custom styling.

src is the attribute which contains the relative path or url to the sound file. This file must have a valid format, listed above.

<source> is an elment that is used instead of the src inlined on the <audio> element. This gives you the possibility to add more formats of the same song so the browser can pick the first on it supports, if it doesn't support all of them that is.

type is an attribute that is used together with the <source> element in order to help determine which format the sound file has.

Back to top

The <video> tag.
The <video> tag is very similar to the <audio> tag in terms of everything really. The big difference is, as you can aspect, that it is used to embed video content in a document instead. Such as a movie clip or other video streams.

Supportet formats are the following:

.mp4 - video/mp4
.webm - video/webm,
.ogg - video/ogg
More information here: HTML <video> tag

Back to top

The <iframe> tag.
An <iframe> (inline frame) is an HTML element that allows you to embed another HTML document within the current HTML document. It creates a rectangular region on the page, and the content within this region is sourced from another URL. This enables the integration of external content into a webpage, such as documents, videos, maps, or entire web pages.

Back to top

Attributes on <iframe>
src: specifies the URL of the content to be embedded within the iframe.
<iframe src="https://www.example.com"></iframe>
width and height: determine the dimensions of the iframe
<iframe width="500" height="300" src="https://www.example.com"></iframe>
sandbox: a set of flags that control various aspects of the iframe's behavior, enhancing security.
<iframe src="https://www.example.com" sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts"></iframe>
allowfullscreen: Eeables the iframe to be displayed in fullscreen mode when the user interacts with it.
<iframe src="https://www.example.com" allowfullscreen></iframe>
There are also more attributes available on an iframe, this is just a few of them. More info can be found here: HTML <iframe> teag

Back to top

Properties on an <iframe> reference
If you grab the iframe with JavaScript you get access to the iframe object. and on this object there are a bunch of properties we can use. Two of them are very useful.

contentDocument: returns the document object generated by the iframe. That is the DOM really of the embedded content.

contentWindow returns the window object generated by the iframe. The BOM of the embedded content.

More info here: HTML DOM iframe object

Back to top

Functionality
Content Embedding
The primary function is to embed content from another source seamlessly into a webpage.

Cross-Origin Communication
Iframes enable communication between documents from different origins using the postMessage method.

iframe.contentWindow.postMessage("Hello from the parent!", "https://yourdomain.com");
Isolation and Security
Iframes provide a level of isolation, preventing the styles and scripts of the embedded content from affecting the outer document.

Dynamic Content Loading
The content within an iframe can be dynamically changed using JavaScript, allowing for interactive and dynamic user experiences.

Back to top

Common Use Cases
Embedding External Content
Displaying content from another website, like news articles or external tools.

Third-Party Widgets
Integrating third-party widgets, such as social media feeds or maps.

Advertisement Banners
Displaying advertisements from external ad services.

Document Embedding
Embedding PDFs or other document formats within a page.

<iframe src="document.pdf"></iframe>
But maybe the most common use case is when you want to embed video content from YouTube. The nice thing about that is that YouTube actually provides you with an embed code for each video that you can use within an <iframe> to display that video on your website. Try it out by right-clicking on a random video on YouTube and choose the alternative: "copy embedded code" and paste that in your HTML document.

Back to top

Security Challenges
When using iframes, there are several precautions and considerations to take into account to ensure security, user experience, and compliance with best practices. I could write down a list but it all has to do with web security which is something that is not part of you education. Be cautions using iframes, know that there are things to think about when implementing them and research that before considering using them in a live application.

Read more about it here: 7 Required Steps to Secure Your iFrames Security

Back to top

The HTMLMediaElement Interface
The HTMLMediaElement interface is a part of HTML and is a interface that is implemented by both the <audio> and the <video> elements. It defines a set of properties, methods and events that allow you to interact with, and control media elements in a web page using JavaScript.

To see the full documentation on the interface, check these links out:

w3Schools Audio/Video DOM Reference

HTMLMediaElement Interface

Methods
There are five methods available on the interface but only two of them are commonly used. They are:

play(): when this method is invoked the audio element will play the sound files that is referenced in the src attribute or in the source element.

pause(): when this method is invoked it will pause the sound file.

<audio src="sound.mp3"></audio>
const audio = document.querySelector("audio");

audio.play(); // Will start playing the sound.
audio.pause(); // Will pause the sound.
Back to top

Properties
There are numeroues properties available on the interface, 29 in total. I am going to list the most useful down below:

autoplay: sets or returns whether the audio/video should start playing as soon as it is loaded in the browser. Boolean value. Default is false.

controls: displays default controls to the audio/video element in the browser. Boolean value, default false.

currentTime: sets or returns the current playback position of the audio/video. Value is in seconds.

defaultMuted: sets or returns whether the audio/video should be muted by default.

duration: returns the length of the current audio/video in seconds.

ended: Returns whether the playback of the audio/video has ended or not.

loop: sets or returns whether the audio/video should start over again when it's finsihed.

muted: sets or returns wheter the audio/video os muted or not.

paused: returns whether the audio/video is paused or not.

src: sets or returns the current source of the audio/video.

volume: sets or returns the volume of the audio/video. Acceptable values are between 0 and 1. When the sound file is played, the volume will always have a value of 1, which means it is dependant on the current volume level on your speakers.

Back to top

Events
Apart from all the original events that are available on HTML elements, the HTMLMediaElement Interface also gives us access to a set of new events, 22 in total. These events can be added to the audio/video element and can be use to run code during specific interactions with the element. A few of the available events are:

canplaythrough: fires when the browser can play through the audio/video without stopping for buffering

ended: fires when the current playlist is ended

pause: fires when the audio/video has been paused

play: fires when the audio/video has been started or is no longer paused

playing: fires when the audio/video is playing after having been paused or stopped for buffering

ratechange: fires when the playing speed of the audio/video is changed

seeked: fires when the user is finished moving/skipping to a new position in the audio/video

seeking: fires when the user starts moving/skipping to a new position in the audio/video

volumechange: fires when the volume has been changed

Back to top